Calculating the Fibonacci numbers	calculating-the-fibonacci-numbers	I optimize the computation of the nth Fibonacci number in Python.
Dirichlet's approximation theorem	dirichlets-approximation-theorem	I prove Dirichlet's approximation theorem.
Euler's gamma function	eulers-gamma-function	I prove the most important property of Euler's gamma function.
Gaussian quadrature and orthogonal polynomials	gaussian-quadrature-and-orthogonal-polynomials	I show how orthogonal polynomials can be used to compute quadrature rules.
Computing decimal digits of square roots	computing-decimal-digits-of-square-roots	I show how to manually compute decimal digits of square roots.
Bounds for rational approximations to square roots	bounds-for-rational-approximations-to-square-roots	I give a bound for rational approximations to square roots.
Solving the maximum subarray problem with prefix sums	solving-the-maximum-subarray-problem-with-prefix-sums	I show how the maximum subarray problem can easily be solved using prefix sums.
Cardano's formula	cardanos-formula	In this article, I'll try to explain Cardano's formula for finding the roots of a polynomial of degree three.
B-splines	b-splines	Splines, or piecewise polynomial functions, are a convenient way to define smooth functions. In this article I introduce some theory behind them.
Division by constant signed integers	division-by-constant-signed-integers	Division is a relatively slow operation. When the divisor is constant, the division can be optimized significantly. In <a href="https://rubenvannieuwpoort.nl/posts/division-by-constant-unsigned-integers">division by constant unsigned integers</a> I explored how this can be done for unsigned integers. In this follow-up article, I cover how we can optimize division by constant signed integers.
Division by constant unsigned integers	division-by-constant-unsigned-integers	Most modern processors have an integer divide instruction which is relatively slow compared to the other arithmetic operations. When the divisor is known at compile-time or the same divisor is used for many divisions, it is possible to transform the single division to a series of instructions which execute faster. Most compilers will optimize divisions in this way. In this article, I give an overview of the existing techniques for unsigned integers.
The finite element method	the-finite-element-method	The finite element method is an elegant mathematical method to numerically solve partial differential equations. In this article, I give a short introduction.
The singular value decomposition	the-singular-value-decomposition	The singular value decomposition is a matrix decomposition with many applications, one of them being principal component analysis. In this article I use the spectral theorem for Hermitian matrices to easily prove the existence of the singular value decomposition.
The spectral theorem for Hermitian matrices	the-spectral-theorem-for-hermitian-matrices	This article proves some pleasing properties of Hermitian matrices, and uses them to prove that Hermitian matrices can be diagonalized in a specific form.
Smooth iteration count for the Mandelbrot set	smooth-iteration-count-for-the-mandelbrot-set	The Mandelbrot set is a famous fractal. The naive way to color it uses an integer (the number of iterations). However, there is a way to obtain a smoothed version of the iteration count. In this article, I show how it can be derived.
The Euler-Lagrange equation	the-euler-lagrange-equation	The Euler-Lagrange equation is an important equation which is useful when you try to find a extrema of functionals, which are mappings from functions to the real numbers. In this article I show a derivation and some applications.
